In the previous class, Carlos
described the business model of
a pharmacy.
And as I told you and have told
you many times, this is not
just about defining it, but what
we have to do is to analyze
it, to bring conclusions
to try to innovate or evolve
it, to have some advantage.
So, Carlos, what I propose to
you is that you do an analysis, but
a more or less summarized analysis,
an executive summary, that you
choose some of the blocks that
you talked to us yesterday about
Canvas and star some conclusion.
Explain a little about the methodology.
We need to understand the methodology
a little.
How is this analysis?
very well.
It is about taking advantage of
the graphic form that we have in
the Canvas to go analyzing our business
model for each of the blocks
and seeing if in that block we have
a strength that we could
take advantage of to evolve
our model or a weakness that we
should think how to solve
it in the face of the evolution
of the model or both, as we
will see in the two examples
that I will put.
This would have to be done in
all blocks, but we will do it in
two specifics to show, as you
say Borja, the methodology.
The first one we will analyze
is the revenue flow of our
pharmacy business model, which
we saw consisted only of a
flow that was the sale of
products.
This has a weakness from my point
of view, regardless of whether
that flow was greater or lesser.
There are pharmacies that break
a lot and yet I still see a
weakness in that revenue flow.
Why is it?
For two main reasons.
First is because they only sell
products and the lack of selling
services, which would be
another additional possibility,
complicates customer loyalty,
which we can offer a
different customer experience.
The transaction sale of a product is
very difficult to differentiate
from another pharmacy office.
And a second very important reason
from my point of view that
turns a weakness of this block
is the lack of recurrence.
A pharmacy office only earns
when it sells products, so that
it does so in a transactional
and non-recurrent way,
as we might think, for example,
in other business models,
such as a gym that enters
monthly, regardless
of the use they make of
its services to customers.
I agree with your analysis and
will add two things.
One of the things I said was that they
didn't sell services.
I am not an ordinary customer of
the pharmacy but from the common
sense I think they are losing
an enormous opportunity because
with the relationship they have
with customers, I think it is
a business model in which you
could incorporate certain sales
of services.
And with regard to recurrence, we'll
talk a lot about recurrence in
this course of business models
because it's one of the key
factors to analyze in the revenue
flow and in general in a
business model.
It is very convenient to
seek recurrence.
Have you called the gym?
Well, it is that in particular
we will analyze the business
model of a chain of gyms and one
of the conclusions we will
get is that the huge recurrence,
the recurrence of its positive,
that has other negatives,
but in the case of the gym
the fact that all its customers
pay in a recurring way
is clearly that it is a clear
strength.
So we go, totally agree.
That is, it guarantees
us a monthly income,
recurrently and also predictably.
That is the prediction, indeed.
It is very good to be able to do this because
we are going to get to the next block.
The next block we will analyze
as an example is that of
customer segments.
In this case, you see a duality.
On the one hand, a strength in this
segment of customers, remember the
neighbors, because they are customers
that we know and know us, who
trust us and that therefore
could allow us to grow within
that segment to the extent
that we provide proposals from
different people within the
neighbors.
Totally agree.
At the same time I see that there may
be a certain weakness or need for improvement,
I would say, in this segment.
It is true that it is a group
of neighbors we know and
know, but we are talking about
their volume of a small segment.
On average, a pharmacy in Spain
has about 2,150 inhabitants.
If we consider that it does not reach
23,000 pharmacies for a total
of 45 million inhabitants.
Therefore, it is a segment that
could grow based on capturing customers
from several around or other
areas.
That's what we should think about
how to address possible developments.
I'll add something about what
the target audience is the
people living around.
It is something that is
common in of this type where
one of the key resources
is the store or installation.
It is very common, in retail for
example it is common, but we will
see a case, we will analyze the
case of one of the students
who has an installation of football
fields in their own.
Then we will see the same
conclusion as pharmacies, which
is that in the end your customer
segment is limited by pure geography
and that is clearly a
weakness.
In the case of the pharmacy even more
because you are telling me that in
the end they are directed by half if
they share the whole cake that is Spain.
Among the pharmacies there are at
the end you come out because I don't
know how many you said but very few
very few inhabitants.
Effectively but at the same time as we
will see it implies a possibility of
improvement, this weakness can be reduced
by thinking of offering something
differentiated to our customers or
potential customers.
No one will move from one pharmacy
to another from a nearby village
or neighborhood to buy an aspirin,
but if you see in our pharmacy
a differentiated value proposal
we will be able to attract
audiences from other
geographies.
Great, because what we can do
now is from you to propose us some
idea or some possible evolution
aimed at reducing them
or building on the fortress
as you prefer.
That is, that is the idea in this
methodology, think about possible
evolutions and then how we will see it moderate.
If we take back the block of
income flows in which we saw
that weakness was two basically,
the lack of sales of services
and recurring income, I think
the feeling of certain health
control services, for example
think of the third age, to
which we could offer a service
of monitoring its basic
constants, for example blood
pressure, temperature,
blood glucose level, etc.
Through the payment of a small
but recurring monthly fee that
would allow to provide the
third age to our elders a quincennal
or monthly surveillance service.
I think the pharmacy is
perfectly trained to provide
that service and help the national
health system in the primary
care process.
Well I absolutely think that in
addition customers would be willing
to pay for it, that you already
build on a relationship of much trust
with that type of customers, it
seems to me that it has all the
sense of the world.
Is there a pharmacy that does
it?
Well, as such now not, because
I know I have formed hundreds of pharmacists,
I suppose that some of them to
whom I have proposed this type
of models because they have not
put in place, I don't know if
it has been so.
What is true is that there are
more and more pharmacies that
are incorporating wellness
services and the next step of
turning it into something recurrent
is relatively easy.
Well Carlos to palliate or to overcome
the weakness that you had identified
and is that the customer
segment is small, because in
the end you have to address
people around, what do you
propose?
Well I see two possible growth
pathways, even being a small
segment we can grow within the
segment and we can also grow
by seeing customers, new customers
outside the neighboring
segment.
In the first case, growing within
the being small, 2,150 inhabitants
on average per pharmacy, half
of them approximately are men
and the pharmacy has no clear
proposal of value towards it.
Men are increasingly taking care of
themselves but are doing so in
the gym, in the hairdressing,
in sports stores, on social networks.
What better site than the pharmacy
to offer a comprehensive service
of editing, capillary, etc?
If we think of growing in new customer
segments, we could be focusing on
aspects such as runners, people
who like to take care of themselves,
who do sports, the third age,
mature women, insofar as our
pharmacy offered a specific
value proposal for these
segments we would undoubtedly
attract audiences from other
neighborhoods around or
symbolizing villages.
Perfect, that is, on the one hand
you propose within without coming out
of within the neighbors for example
identify a segment in which you can
grow, that are already customers yours
but that like the men and you adapt
your proposal and you will grow
in them or establish or design
a value proposal very adapted to
for example to runners you said
and that that allows you to attract
customers that are out of your
logical field of action.
This is to attract audiences from other segments.
I always say that we should
think of this even if it was
only defensive if we are not
those who attract audiences
from other neighborhoods
or neighborhoods will be others
who do and we will be
those who see that our
customers go toward these
alternative business models.
This is what they say, the
best defense is a good attack,
right?
Or something like that.
Effectively, and especially giving
the first, which creates a major
entry barrier.
Effectively, good because from here
what we will do is choose one
of the ideas you have raised and
we will develop it in more detail.